tabconf-litdevs.md, before:

+++
title = "TABConf Socratic Session: Lightning BOLT Spec and Implementation Updates"
date = 2025-10-16
+++

Housekeeping
------------

- Questions are encouraged, including basic ones!
- Socratic Seminars are held under the [Chatham House Rule](https://www.chathamhouse.org/about-us/chatham-house-rule): share the information you receive, but do not reveal the identity of who said it.
- For the privacy of other attendees, please refrain from taking photographs of other people without their permission.
- Socratic seminars are best when the moderator can let the conversation flow, so try to keep things concrete and focused.
- Today's focus is Lightning BOLT Spec and Implementation Updates

News
----
- [Lightning++ Happened!](https://btcpp.dev/conf/berlin25)
- [Lightning Specification Meeting 2025/10/06](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1293)

## Dual-Funding
#### Related Docs
- [BOLT 2](https://github.com/t-bast/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md)
- [Dual funding reconnect commit_sig retransmission](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1289)
- [Allow non-initiator to RBF dual-funded channels](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1236)

#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Dual-funding for taproot channels](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103)
- LDK
- LND

## Splicing
#### Related Docs
- [Channel Splicing (feature 62/63)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1160)
- [BOLT 2: quiescence protocol (feature 34/35) option_quiesce](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/869)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
  - [Splice: Interop Final (probably) with Eclair](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8021)
  - [splicing: Adds the features needed to enable collaborative splicing & resizing of active channels](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/6253)
- Eclair
  - [Simple taproot channels & splicing](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103)
  - [Send channel_announcement for splice transactions on public channels](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2968)
  - [Implement on-the-fly funding based on splicing and liquidity ads](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2861)
  - [Add support for RBF-ing splice transactions](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2925)
  - [Add quiescence negotiation](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2680)
  - [Add support for splices](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2584)
- LDK
  - [Add splice-out support](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3979)
  - [Simplify Quiescence and prepare for splice integration](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4007)
  - [Add splice-out support](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3979)
  - [Support scalar tweak to rotate holder funding key during splicing](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3624)
- LND
  - [Implement Quiescence Protocol](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/8270)

 
## Lightning Service Provider (LSP
#### Related Docs
- [Extensible Liquidity Ads)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1153)
- [LSP Spec Transport Layer](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0050.md)
- [LSPS1: Channel Requests](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0051.md)
- [LSPS2: JIT Channel Negotiation](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0052.md)
- [LSPS5: Webhook Registration](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0055.md)

#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
- LDK
- LND


## Zero-Fee Commitments
#### Related Docs
- TRUC BIP: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0431.mediawiki
- P2A BIP: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1982
- BOLT PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1228
#### Implementations
- Guide for Wallets Using V28.0: https://bitcoinops.org/en/bitcoin-core-28-wallet-integration-guide/
- Pay to Anchor and Ephemeral Dust: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/126098/pay-to-anchor-and-ephemeral-dust
- LDK Tracking Issue: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/3789
- LND Feature Request: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/issues/10201

## Simple Taproot Channels
#### Related Docs
- Main BOLT PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/995
#### Implementations
- Some Interop between LND and Eclair: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/995#pullrequestreview-3062995497
- "Bring Taproot Channels Into Phoenix": https://github.com/ACINQ/phoenix/pull/758
- lightning-kmp PR: https://github.com/ACINQ/lightning-kmp/pull/805
- eclair PR: https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103
- LND v17.0 release: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.17.0-beta
- LND v17.0 release notes: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/release-notes/release-notes-0.17.0.md
 
## (Taproot) Gossip V1.75
#### Related Docs
- Main Proposal: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/updates-to-the-gossip-1-75-proposal-post-ln-summit-meeting/1202
- Companion Bolt PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1059
#### Implementations
- ZK-gossip extension: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/zk-gossip-for-lightning-channel-announcements/1407/29
- Rusty's 2022 Gossip V2 Proposal: https://diyhpl.us/~bryan/irc/bitcoin/bitcoin-dev/linuxfoundation-pipermail/lightning-dev/2022-February/003470.txt
- Make Gossip Suck Less: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/ln-summit-2024-notes-summary-commentary/1198#p-3370-make-gossip-suck-less-9

## Hybrid Channel Jamming
#### Related Docs
- [Project Updates: Hybrid Channel Jamming Mitigation](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1218)
- [Bitcoin Optech: Channel Jamming](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/channel-jamming-attacks/)
- [Warnet - Wrath Of Nalo](https://github.com/bitcoin-dev-project/wrath-of-nalo)
#### Implementations
- LND: [Add Experimental Endorsement Signalling](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/8390)
- Eclair: [Add HTLC endorsement/confidence](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2884)

## Async Payments
#### Related Docs
- [Support async payments in BOLT 12](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1149)
- [Val Wallace Async Payment Presentation (skip to 2:56:00)](https://web.mit.edu/webcast/bitcoin-expo-s24/)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Add initial support for async payment trampoline relay](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2435)
  - [Add PeerReadyNotifier actor](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2464)
  - [Wake up wallet nodes before relaying messages or payments](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2865)
- LDK
  - [Support intercepting onion messages for offline peers](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2973)
  - [Async payments message encoding and prefactor](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3125)
  - [Support paying static invoices](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3140)
  - [Async recipient-side of static invoice server](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3618)
  - [Static invoice server](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3628)
  - [Async payments followups](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/4135)
- LND

## Trampoline Routing
#### Related Docs
- [Trampoline Routing (Feature 56/57)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/829)
- [Trampoline onion format (Feature 56/57)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/836)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Add trampoline onion support](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/1209)
  - [Add initial support for async payment trampoline relay](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2435)
  - [Variable size for trampoline onion](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2810)
  - [Trampoline to blinded](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2811)
  - [Prepare attribution data for trampoline payments](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3109)
- LDK
  - [Trampoline](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/2299)
- LND
  - [routing+htlcswitch: implement the major variants of Trampoline routing](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/issues/6689)
- Electrum
  - [4.1.0 RELEASE-NOTES](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/4.1.0/RELEASE-NOTES)


## BOLT 12
#### Related Docs
- [BOLT 12](https://github.com/t-bast/bolts/blob/master/12-offer-encoding.md)
- [blip-0042: Bolt 12 Contacts](https://github.com/lightning/blips/pull/42)
- [BOLT 12: re-add recurrence support](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1240)
- [Support async payments in BOLT 12](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1149)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
  - [Offers: Not just for breakfast anymore!](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/7833)
- Eclair
  - [Eclair v0.11.0](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
- LDK
  - [BOLT12 Offers Tracking Issue](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/1970)
  - [BOLT12 Has Arrived](https://lightningdevkit.org/blog/bolt12-has-arrived/)
- LND
  - LND does not support yet, but you run run [LNDK](https://github.com/lndk-org/lndk) alongside LND to support BOLT 12

Commit message:

Add Hybrid Mitigation link to documentation
Added a new link for Hybrid Mitigation for Channel Jamming.

tabconf-litdevs.md, after:

+++
title = "TABConf Socratic Session: Lightning BOLT Spec and Implementation Updates"
date = 2025-10-16
+++

Housekeeping
------------

- Questions are encouraged, including basic ones!
- Socratic Seminars are held under the [Chatham House Rule](https://www.chathamhouse.org/about-us/chatham-house-rule): share the information you receive, but do not reveal the identity of who said it.
- For the privacy of other attendees, please refrain from taking photographs of other people without their permission.
- Socratic seminars are best when the moderator can let the conversation flow, so try to keep things concrete and focused.
- Today's focus is Lightning BOLT Spec and Implementation Updates

News
----
- [Lightning++ Happened!](https://btcpp.dev/conf/berlin25)
- [Lightning Specification Meeting 2025/10/06](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1293)

## Dual-Funding
#### Related Docs
- [BOLT 2](https://github.com/t-bast/bolts/blob/master/02-peer-protocol.md)
- [Dual funding reconnect commit_sig retransmission](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1289)
- [Allow non-initiator to RBF dual-funded channels](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1236)

#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Dual-funding for taproot channels](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103)
- LDK
- LND

## Splicing
#### Related Docs
- [Channel Splicing (feature 62/63)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1160)
- [BOLT 2: quiescence protocol (feature 34/35) option_quiesce](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/869)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
  - [Splice: Interop Final (probably) with Eclair](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8021)
  - [splicing: Adds the features needed to enable collaborative splicing & resizing of active channels](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/6253)
- Eclair
  - [Simple taproot channels & splicing](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103)
  - [Send channel_announcement for splice transactions on public channels](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2968)
  - [Implement on-the-fly funding based on splicing and liquidity ads](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2861)
  - [Add support for RBF-ing splice transactions](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2925)
  - [Add quiescence negotiation](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2680)
  - [Add support for splices](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2584)
- LDK
  - [Add splice-out support](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3979)
  - [Simplify Quiescence and prepare for splice integration](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4007)
  - [Add splice-out support](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3979)
  - [Support scalar tweak to rotate holder funding key during splicing](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3624)
- LND
  - [Implement Quiescence Protocol](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/8270)

 
## Lightning Service Provider (LSP
#### Related Docs
- [Extensible Liquidity Ads)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1153)
- [LSP Spec Transport Layer](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0050.md)
- [LSPS1: Channel Requests](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0051.md)
- [LSPS2: JIT Channel Negotiation](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0052.md)
- [LSPS5: Webhook Registration](https://github.com/lightning/blips/blob/master/blip-0055.md)

#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
- LDK
- LND


## Zero-Fee Commitments
#### Related Docs
- TRUC BIP: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0431.mediawiki
- P2A BIP: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1982
- BOLT PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1228
#### Implementations
- Guide for Wallets Using V28.0: https://bitcoinops.org/en/bitcoin-core-28-wallet-integration-guide/
- Pay to Anchor and Ephemeral Dust: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/126098/pay-to-anchor-and-ephemeral-dust
- LDK Tracking Issue: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/3789
- LND Feature Request: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/issues/10201

## Simple Taproot Channels
#### Related Docs
- Main BOLT PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/995
#### Implementations
- Some Interop between LND and Eclair: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/995#pullrequestreview-3062995497
- "Bring Taproot Channels Into Phoenix": https://github.com/ACINQ/phoenix/pull/758
- lightning-kmp PR: https://github.com/ACINQ/lightning-kmp/pull/805
- eclair PR: https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3103
- LND v17.0 release: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.17.0-beta
- LND v17.0 release notes: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/release-notes/release-notes-0.17.0.md
 
## (Taproot) Gossip V1.75
#### Related Docs
- Main Proposal: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/updates-to-the-gossip-1-75-proposal-post-ln-summit-meeting/1202
- Companion Bolt PR: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1059
#### Implementations
- ZK-gossip extension: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/zk-gossip-for-lightning-channel-announcements/1407/29
- Rusty's 2022 Gossip V2 Proposal: https://diyhpl.us/~bryan/irc/bitcoin/bitcoin-dev/linuxfoundation-pipermail/lightning-dev/2022-February/003470.txt
- Make Gossip Suck Less: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/ln-summit-2024-notes-summary-commentary/1198#p-3370-make-gossip-suck-less-9

## Hybrid Channel Jamming
#### Related Docs
- [Project Updates: Hybrid Channel Jamming Mitigation](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1218)
- [Warnet - Wrath Of Nalo](https://github.com/bitcoin-dev-project/wrath-of-nalo)
- [Bitcoin Optech: Channel Jamming](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/channel-jamming-attacks/)
- [Hybrid Mitigation for Channel Jamming](https://gist.github.com/carlaKC/02251cd061260bbb149f361c65fc9f2f)
#### Implementations
- LND: [Add Experimental Endorsement Signalling](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/8390)
- Eclair: [Add HTLC endorsement/confidence](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2884)

## Async Payments
#### Related Docs
- [Support async payments in BOLT 12](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1149)
- [Val Wallace Async Payment Presentation (skip to 2:56:00)](https://web.mit.edu/webcast/bitcoin-expo-s24/)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Add initial support for async payment trampoline relay](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2435)
  - [Add PeerReadyNotifier actor](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2464)
  - [Wake up wallet nodes before relaying messages or payments](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2865)
- LDK
  - [Support intercepting onion messages for offline peers](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2973)
  - [Async payments message encoding and prefactor](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3125)
  - [Support paying static invoices](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3140)
  - [Async recipient-side of static invoice server](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3618)
  - [Static invoice server](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/3628)
  - [Async payments followups](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/4135)
- LND

## Trampoline Routing
#### Related Docs
- [Trampoline Routing (Feature 56/57)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/829)
- [Trampoline onion format (Feature 56/57)](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/836)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
- Eclair
  - [Add trampoline onion support](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/1209)
  - [Add initial support for async payment trampoline relay](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2435)
  - [Variable size for trampoline onion](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2810)
  - [Trampoline to blinded](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/2811)
  - [Prepare attribution data for trampoline payments](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3109)
- LDK
  - [Trampoline](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/2299)
- LND
  - [routing+htlcswitch: implement the major variants of Trampoline routing](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/issues/6689)
- Electrum
  - [4.1.0 RELEASE-NOTES](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/4.1.0/RELEASE-NOTES)


## BOLT 12
#### Related Docs
- [BOLT 12](https://github.com/t-bast/bolts/blob/master/12-offer-encoding.md)
- [blip-0042: Bolt 12 Contacts](https://github.com/lightning/blips/pull/42)
- [BOLT 12: re-add recurrence support](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1240)
- [Support async payments in BOLT 12](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1149)
#### Implementations
- Core Lightning
  - [Offers: Not just for breakfast anymore!](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/7833)
- Eclair
  - [Eclair v0.11.0](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
- LDK
  - [BOLT12 Offers Tracking Issue](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/1970)
  - [BOLT12 Has Arrived](https://lightningdevkit.org/blog/bolt12-has-arrived/)
- LND
  - LND does not support yet, but you run run [LNDK](https://github.com/lndk-org/lndk) alongside LND to support BOLT 12
